Hey, guys, what's up?
This is American, and I welcome you to another door on this course on Rowby.
And in this tutorial, we are going to cover a very interesting topic that is understanding absence
in Ruby.
Now, have you ever been confused about the different ways to handle missing data in Ruby language?
Because I have and I'm sure that I'm not alone in that the option Ruby offer comes in the form of several
methods that include the present black, middle and empty.
There are all some very related since all of them check for the absence of data in some way.
But they are also all different in the sense that they check for different types of absence, so to
speak.
Besides, there's also a question of availability.
Not all of them are available to the same object.
Sounds confusing.
Well, you have come to the right place.
This tutorial is going to clear up.
That confusion will start by explaining the journal needs for this in which to model absence, not just
in Ruby, but in programming in general.
Then we will briefly cover some of the ruby characteristics, because such knowledge is important for
understanding some of the choices made by the designers of languages.
Finally, we will explain how to deal with missing or unknown data and Ruby covering each one of the
methods in detail, including example.
So now what we have is that what is something from nothing and what is the need for modeling absence
in programming?
Now we are going to dive into the different ways in which Ruby programming language models absence.
But before we do that, let's go with the need for absence modeling, with programming in general.
Now, I've seen different kind of people that define programming as the manipulation of data.
And I would say most people think of data as a thing rather than not a thing.
Or better yet, they think of data as the digital representation of a number of things that can range
from physical object to even quantities or even abstract concepts.
However, such a definition of data is inaccurate, or at least I must say it is incomplete.
It's missing something, the very concept of missing something.
Now, this might be surprising for the beginners, but in software development we devote a non-trivial
amount of energy to handling the concept of absence.
It's all too common to have a piece of data that is missing, unknown or generally unavailable for some
reason.
Ruby, of course, is not the only language that needs the concept of nothing.
Far from it.
If you have ever recorded an BHB, then you have certainly had to deal with a null and same goes for
C Hash Java and pretty much every mainstream modern programming language.
In the functional paradigm, it's common to use approaches such as optional types.
Procedural languages could use written codes to sign that a given piece of data is missing.
Now, why is the absent absence of data such an important concept and programming?
Well, for the same reason it's important then in life in general, we, as in the human species, don't
know a lot of things.
In maths you have the concept of variables to represent unknown values.
The concept of absence is present even in music.
Those of you who are musician and can read music sheets, then you must know that they are symbols that
denote positive pauses.
You if you just read on the sheet of music and then if you have to have a post somewhere in the music,
for example, if you are playing, let's say, a guitar and you have to pause in at a certain place,
then that pause is going to also be indicated by some kind of symbol on a musical sheet.
So it should not come as a surprise that in programming we also often have to deal with the concept
of missing data.
As I see it, the need for a nothingness comes in three categories.
First, we have the situation of unavailable data.
We don't know the answer yet, but we might know it in the future.
An example of that would be data that is still not ready due to some time sensitive constraint.
For instance, sales report of a given month when the month is not over.
Yet another category of missing or invalid data would be data representing events that have not occurred
yet or might never occur.
For instance, thinks think about an employed table in a relational database.
It probably makes sense for it to have a column called Termination Date, which might never come.
Finally, there is also the case of absent data that is used to indicate that the question itself is
not valid.
If someone asked me whether the current king of Brazil is valid or not, I think such a person is mocking
me.
Or maybe they are just terribly misinformed.
Anyway, there is no king of Brazil, which means that the question itself is not valid.
In database design, for instance, we would probably use no to model that answer now.
Understanding the concept of absence in Ruby, there are some key concepts for that now before we have
covered the concept of nothingness or absence of data and programming, drawing comparisons between
the need for representing absence in programming and other areas, then we have seen how you should
have different use cases for representing absence with that out of the way.
Now it's time to start talking about Ruby.
Specifically, this language handles missing data in several different ways.
It's time for you to know about them.
And you also need to know that what tools you have to apply in the correct situation so that you get
the correct output.
Now, there is always a phrase if you are familiar with any kind of programming language, that everything
is an object.
The Ruby programming language, as you might know, and I have told you in the very starting tutorial
that was first appeared in nineteen ninety five, Ukiyo Mat's Masumoto created the language, drawing
inspiration from some of his favorite languages, such as Spurrell Small Smalltalk, I Feel Atah and
Lisp.
Ruby, like most mainstream programming languages, supports developing in several paradigms, effectively
making it a multi paradigm language.
But obviously Ruby Focus is the object oriented paradigm.
People like to say that in Ruby everything is an object, but I think that's not quite accurate.
But for the sake of this tutorial, let's consider that this statement is true.
So what is the implication of everything is an object?
Well, to accomplish things in Ruby, you call methods on objects are to put it in another way, you
pass messages to them.
So, for example, you have, let's say, a statement that is X equal to two Blasdel.
Even someone who has never written a line of Ruby code can understand a line about the value of the
result is quite obvious, obvious.
But where is the object orientation in this?
Where are the methods in this?
Now the answer is simple.
The line above is nothing but syntactic sugar.
Now what's really happening is this line of code.
You are calling the bluff method on the to object and passing the other two as an argument.
So you are expressing such a simple idea that is equal to two plus two.
Ruby still keeps loyal to its object oriented ideas.
Now, if you talk about everything is an object, then what about nothing?
This Ruby characteristics of almost everything being an object results interesting and often surprising
choices when modeling the concept of nothingness.
For instance, in Ruby, even true and false are objects.
They are the single instances of the true glass and false glass respectively, which you have already
covered in the previous tutorials.
So it should not come as a surprise that in Ruby, even absence is modelled as some kind of object because
that would be simply staying true to the language philosophy.
Now, absence in Dubai, what about the types you have to come across now we are going to start on with
the types that are four in number and the main they are the main method of checking for missing data
in the Ruby language.
So we will start with the most general and universally available one and progress towards the more specific.
The first one is the nail.
So let's start out with no sense.
It's the most common and the most easy to understand way of representing nothingness in Ruby in terms
of what it means.
Nhill is exactly the same thing as in other programming languages.
So basically what is not.
Now, you have heard a lot about the previous tutorial, but to give you a basic introduction NUL,
as it exists in many programming languages, is a sort of value that represents nothing.
The way it's defined can and does vary a lot between languages.
But the gist of it is the same now represents the absence of nothing.
It can be returned from functions and also passed as an argument.
But there is something problematic about the construct.
Most of the time when some consumer code receives NUL or a.l, things go or even toward the special
value can be gladly passed around as if it was a valid value.
It is not it does not answer to the same contract as the valid objects it impersonating.
So we will see examples of that later.
But before that we have to cover the other types as well.
So let's move on to the second type that is empty.
So now we have covered the nil construct and Ruby and you can think of nil as the most general way of
representing absence in Ruby.
Editing can potentially be nil and every object can answer to the nil method.
So now let's go over a more specific way of representing lack of data, and that is emptiness.
Not everything can be nil, but only collections can be empty.
The empty method can be used with objects such as Herries sets and hash, and it will return true when
the collection does not have any kind of elements.
However, the empty method is not available for any Marable's, and we will see examples for that later.
So moving on to the third type, let's not talk about the blank matter.
There's one important difference between this method and the next one as well.
And those that came before the first two methods are native to the ruby language.
The blank method, on the other hand, was introduced by the Ruby on Rails framework.
With that out of the way, let's see what this method is all about.
Now, this method is interesting because it check for several properties of a given object at once.
This is a very common use case.
Now, suppose that you have a method that is supposed to take an error as a parameter.
You will often want to check not only that it is not null, but also that it's not empty.
And since a string can be considered a collection of characters, the same reasoning applies right here.
A similar argument could be made for a boolean value.
You might want to check that it is not null and it is not false.
Yes, you could write several checks, but that might really get old pretty fast.
So always use blank for that.
Not the real framework.
Offer this method.
It's a quicker way of performing several checks related to the validity of an object.
The method will return true for a given object if it's no false, empty or a whitespace string.
And we will also cover examples for that later.
So talking about the fourth method we have, we got to the present method.
Now, this one, like the previous method, is not native to the Ruby language itself, but also provided
by the Rails framework.
This method is by far the easiest of all to understand, and Herrod goes present is just the negation
of blank.
That's it.
So now let's give our examples of all of these four methods we have covered so far.
So let's move on to our compiler.
Adam, and we don't need to go into the concept of Nilo here, because we have already covered that
in our previous stories.
So, you know, how do use nail in the basic parts?
But we will be covering more about in the future tutorials when we will be covering functions and classes.
Then you will see how classes and functions work on WETTENHALL.
So now let's talk about the second one that was empty.
So, for example, you have, let's say, outrange.
That is from one to 10 and then you write in DOT Select.
And what do you want to check away here is that.
If it has certain value X and that X is greater than 10 and you want to see this list returns and empty.
Well, you saw what he will do is that let's just have it in a variable X.
And just right and puts her underscored and it is going to return true.
Now, why it has returned true because we know that X has a range that is from one to 10 and none Nonno
X, since it is going to first select one and put it in X, that is going to check in with this condition.
X is greater than ten.
It is not then is going to check for two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10 and
14, which is the highest value.
Ten is still not greater than then.
It is equal to ten, but it is not greater than ten.
So this list or here is basically going to be empty.
So that's why it has returned to.
But if you have, let's say, nine Oakhill, then you know that it will have a single element that is
ten because ten is greater than nine.
So it is not empty anymore.
So if you now run the score, it is going to return false because this is not empty anymore.
Similarly, as I told you, that basically this empty is used for areas.
It is used for hashes, it is used for Granges, it is used for assets.
So, for example, you have, let's say, some kind of list of elements here.
That is, let's say one khurmatu cometary coma for and if you just run the score, it is going to return
false because this list is not empty.
Then the third method is basically blank.
And as I told you about it, there is a framework of this matter as a quicker way of performing several
checks related to the validity of an object.
And the Blanchot method will return true for a given object if it is no false, empty or whitespace
string.
So if you specify blank here, it is not going to work because since it is for a before is and you have
to meet some requirements for that which we don't have for now, as you can see that it says undefined
method blank for an area.
So that's why it is not working.
It will not even work for a string.
As you can see just from the score, you can see that it says undefined method blank for string.
So we have to meet certain requirements.
But this is basically the syntax for how that is going to be done.
So don't bother about those requirements for now.
That will be done when you will be using Ruby honoris or whenever you have to, covers Ruby on rails
in some kind of tutorial.
Then if you talk about the present, if you just write and present over here, as I told you, it is
basically the reciprocal of this blank method and it is going to return the opposite of output.
Blank is going to give.
But this is also not going to work as this is also used in Ruby on rails.
So to conclude, I would say that nothing is something worth to worry about, nothing is definitely
something, at least when it comes to programming, the amount of effort that is put into figuring out
clever ways to deal with absent or missing data in programming, which might seem weird, especially
to beginners.
But as you have just seen, there are valid use cases for that.
There will be programming language offers, not only one, but many ways to handle.
And in fact, things can even get confusing with so many similar methods.
Now, this drill was just an attempt to clear up that confusion.
So we started on by explaining the need to express missing on or unknown data, not only in Ruby, but
in programming in general and even in other areas.
Then we proceeded to cover some characteristics of Ruby that stem from its object oriented philosophies
with those principles laid out.
You finally explained in detail the form and methods of checking for the absence of presence of data
and Ruby.
So I hope that this tutorial was helpful in letting you know about the various ways you can come across
to represent.
Data that is now so basically, if you say that nothing is nothing, then you are absolutely wrong if
you are a programmer because nothing is something.
That's why we have got four methods to represent nothing in Ruby.
So I guess that's it with Destroy.
A lot of Terry was involved in this tutorial.
I know.
And it would be a bit difficult for you to understand, but I hope that if you go on with this tutorial
three to four times, you will be able to understand this concept because you have to understand the
concept of nothingness in programming to move forward.
So I guess that's it with this tutorial.
Thank you so much, guys, for watching.
And I'll see you guys in the next tutorials.